Prep Time: 20 minutes Cook Time: 1 hour 40 minutes Total Time: 2 hours

Our family's go-to recipe for Borscht (Red Beet Soup). It's best to have all of the ingredients prepped and ready to go which makes this soon super easy and care free. Serve with a dollop of sour cream or real mayo.

Skill Level: Medium
Cost to Make: $12-$16
Keyword: Borsch, Borscht
Servings: 10
Ingredients
For Borscht:
3 medium beets peeled and grated
4 Tbsp olive oil divided
4 cups reduced sodium chicken broth + 6 cups water
3 medium yukon potatoes peeled and sliced into bite-sized pieces
2 carrots peeled and thinly sliced
For Zazharka (Mirepoix):
2 celery ribs trimmed and finely chopped
1 small red bell pepper finely chopped, optional
1 medium onion finely chopped
4 Tbsp ketchup or 3 Tbsp tomato sauce
Additional Flavorings:
1 can white cannelini beans with their juice
2 bay leaves
2-3 Tbsp white vinegar or to taste
1 tsp sea salt or to taste
1/4 tsp black pepper freshly ground
1 large garlic clove pressed
3 Tbsp chopped dill
Instructions
Peel, grate and/or slice all vegetables, keeping sliced potatoes in cold water until ready to use.

Heat a large soup pot (5 1/2 Qt or larger) over medium/high heat and add 2 Tbsp olive oil. Add grated beets and sauté 10 minutes, stirring occasionally until beets are softened. 

Add 4 cups broth and 6 cups water. Add sliced potatoes and sliced carrots then cook for 10-15 minutes or until easily pierced with a fork.

While potatoes are cooking, place a large skillet over medium/high heat and add 2 Tbsp oil. Add chopped onion, celery and bell pepper. Saute stirring occasionally until softened and lightly golden (7-8 minutes). Add 4 Tbsp Ketchup and stir fry 30 seconds then transfer to the soup pot to continue cooking with the potatoes.

When potatoes and carrots reach desired softness, add 1 can of beans with their juice, 2 bay leaves, 2-3 Tbsp white vinegar, 1 tsp salt, 1/4 tsp black pepper, 1 pressed garlic clove, and 3 Tbsp chopped dill. Simmer for an additional 2-3 minutes and add more salt and vinegar to taste.